==================================
Rackspace Private Cloud Version 10
==================================

**Designed to support your enterprise production workloads**

Robb Romans <robb.romans@rackspace.com>

Senior Information Developer, Rackspace US, Inc.

Rackspace Private Cloud Documentation Team

Introduction
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Many companies want to take advantage of public cloud features, but
aren’t willing to compromise on the performance, security and control
that they require for their business applications and data. Public
clouds have the potential to introduce performance issues caused by
“noisy neighbors,” security concerns associated with placing sensitive
data in a shared infrastructure environment, and a lack of control
driven by the inability to customize and fine-tune cloud resources to
meet the needs of a given application. In addition, IT departments want
to avoid vendor “lock-in,” where they become dependent on a vendor and
create a cloud that makes future migrations costly and difficult. They
need to ensure that their cloud can seamlessly grow with their business
and provide high availability for their mission-critical applications.

Rackspace Private Cloud (RPC) is designed to meet these needs. Powered
by OpenStack®, it delivers the agility and efficiency of a
public cloud combined with the improved security, control, and
performance of a dedicated environment. Whether deployed in your data
center or ours, RPC is managed by our OpenStack experts and is backed
by Rackspace support. RPC uses open source Linux
Containers (LXC) deployed with the Ansible IT automation system to
create a powerful, fully featured, and logically segmented private
cloud. It delivers high availability using a four-server control plane
with a clustered database and messaging service. RPC is also backed by
our industry-leading 99.99% OpenStack API uptime guarantee and it is
designed to scale to hundreds of nodes when deployed using our reference
architecture.

The purpose of this document is to provide an in-depth look at how the
Rackspace Private Cloud solution delivers a scalable and highly
available environment that provides high performance, robust security,
and complete control on an open source platform.

Performance
~~~~~~~~~~~

Rackspace Private Cloud provides a scalable and highly available private
cloud environment that helps ensure consistent performance for your
workloads, without having to worry about interruptions caused by noisy
neighbors in the public cloud. Whether in your data center or ours,
hardware dedicated just for you ensures that your critical jobs have
undisturbed access to the full power of your computing investment. You
have full control over how resources are allocated and are backed by our
industry- leading 99.99% OpenStack® API uptime guarantee.

Our team of OpenStack experts can architect a private cloud solution
that best utilizes your infrastructure investment to match the unique
computing needs of your business. For example, workloads can be placed
on hardware within the same physical rack, with lightning fast
intra-server access through top of rack network switches. If your
workloads primarily depend on I/O speed, you can specify that Solid
State Disks (SSDs) be used for local storage. Or, if your workloads are
driven primarily by a need for computing speed, a greater percentage of
your IT spend can be allocated to the latest generation of processors
with additional cache.

.. image:: figures/rpc-v10-ref-arch.png
   :alt: RPC v10 reference architecture

Our reference architecture creates a cloud that anticipates failure in
the infrastructure layer and increases operational granularity in
determining where services live. OpenStack services are installed into
individual Linux containers, which improve operational efficiency and
provide isolation of each service. Users may then scale independently
each OpenStack service and seamlessly upgrade from one release to the
next. Containers are lightweight and resource friendly and take less
overhead than virtual machines, while still providing effective process
isolation. In addition, by separating the supporting services, we set up
industry-standard high availability patterns, which help improve the
stability and performance of your environment.

We designed RPC to be scalable, so that when your capacity needs
increase, you no longer need to replace existing working hardware with
new, expensive larger servers. Instead, you can add compute or network
nodes as needed, and they are ready and available within the machine
pool. RPC is designed to scale to hundreds of physical nodes, so you can
start small and grow without worry.

To provide a scalable back-end data store, RPC uses a combination of
MariaDB plus Galera. MariaDB is an easy to configure, free, open source
database that is compatible with MySQL, and Galera is the clustering
solution for MariaDB. Galera enables multiple MariaDB nodes to manage
synchronous reads and writes. Galera clusters are easily scalable and
have no maximum size or node limit. Restrictions on the number of nodes
are based only on the capabilities of the load balancer, the amount of
bandwidth available, and space in the physical cabinet. Additionally,
with RPC you can improve performance by installing relevant servers in
the same physical rack, to take advantage of fast local switching
without bottlenecks.

RPC also helps you to optimize workload performance by isolating
workloads to a particular class of hardware. Cloud administrators can
create OpenStack host aggregates that are exposed to users as
availability zones. Host aggregates group compute nodes with specific
definable characteristics, for example nodes with SSDs or faster
processors, or older nodes with legacy hardware. Users can then bring up
an instance on a node in the most efficient or cost effective
availability zone. For example, compute intensive workloads can be
tasked to a subset of high performance servers, or workloads can be
restricted to servers in a certain physical location. Or, separate zones
can house critical computing workloads and non-critical development and
testing workloads to increase availability and efficiency.

To help you start quickly adding business value, RPC provides a suite of
free single-click solution templates for some of today’s most widely
used open source applications. These hardened, production-quality
solution templates can significantly decrease the time it takes and the
complexity involved in deploying applications into your cloud. Using the
Rackspace Private Cloud solutions tab in Horizon, you can easily launch
a production-ready application stack on Rackspace Private Cloud in
minutes, not months. RPC solution templates deliver multi-tier, scalable
applications with redundancy, caching, and high availability. The
following solution templates are currently available from RPC: Magento,
Drupal, Galera, MongoDB, ELK stack, and Hortonworks HDP.

Security and control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Rackspace Private Cloud gives you the convenience and flexibility of a
cloud architecture, while giving you the control you need to secure and
isolate your critical data. Security and compliance are vital concerns
for every organization. Challenges include legislative requirements and
internal procedures spanning the physical, logical, and virtual layers.
Rackspace experts can help you tailor your on site or hosted private
cloud to meet stringent security and compliance requirements.

Hosting your private cloud in a Rackspace data center offers many
security advantages. Rackspace data centers are operational 24x7x365 and
are staffed by expert security, engineering, and operations personnel.
We employ perimeter defense measures, such as walls, fencing, gates, and
anti-vehicle controls. The delivery and loading bays at all Rackspace
data centers are separate areas secured by defined procedures and
security controls. Rackspace also enforces strict employee and visitor
access controls.

With RPC, you control where your data resides and how it is accessed.
Security is designed into our architecture, with components that provide
enhanced protection such as physical firewalls, access controls, and
audit logs for reporting and compliance. Identities are authenticated
using either internal or external authentication protocols such as LDAP,
so you can reuse your existing authentication infrastructure. RPC
provides role management and pre-configured role assignments. Roles
provide fine-grained authorization over specific actions and are
assigned to identified users. You can define custom roles to meet
specific compliance or operational needs.

Whether at Rackspace or within your data center, network security is as
important as physical security. The OpenStack Networking component
(neutron) is a software-defined network (SDN) that provides flexibility
for virtual network management. Security over these networks can be
enforced in a variety of ways. Rackspace architects and support team
experts will work with you to identify and develop an appropriate
security solution to meet your current and future requirements.

In our history of managing OpenStack private clouds, Rackspace has found
that splitting the control and data network traffic also separates
concerns in outage or trouble situations, reducing complexity from your
software. It also eases the upgrade path for the control plane for
future RPC releases, and generally provides better redundancy.

To provide networking isolation and control, RPC uses OpenStack
Networking (neutron) overlay networks and namespaces along with Linux
containers. A Linux Bridge plug-in is used to fulfill a simple, robust
networking stack, which meets common private cloud networking needs. You
can create bridges, namespaces, virtual Ethernet pairs, tunnel
interfaces, and tagged sub-interfaces, which are fully encapsulated in
containers. This isolation and encapsulation helps you minimize the
network attack surface and reduce risk.

Rackspace participates in and facilitates compliance with
industry-standard audit reports, certifications, and documentation. RPC
uses the ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, and Kibana) for data
analytics, logging, and data visualization. Elasticsearch is a powerful,
distributed search and analytics engine. Logstash parses logs into
standard JSON format for readability and ease of processing. Kibana’s
simple and highly configurable interactive dashboard gives you near
real-time insight to identify possible problems, spot trends, and
maximize business value.

Open source
~~~~~~~~~~~

Rackspace Private Cloud Software is powered by OpenStack, the open and
actively developed suite of cloud management services. RPC software
version 10 is derived from the “trunk” of OpenStack Juno, so you won’t
be locked in to proprietary modifications or incompatible APIs. As one
of the co-founders of OpenStack, Rackspace contributes significantly to
its ongoing development and employs a team of OpenStack experts to
provide you with support. With flexibility in the consumption
model, compatibility with other open clouds, and the strong, rapidly
growing community of fellow OpenStack adopters, RPC gives you an open
and transparent solution.

OpenStack is a thriving community developing the leading and widely
adopted open source cloud platform, with support from over 450 global
companies and tens of thousands of users and contributors. With an open
design, open development, and an open community, all code and processes
are documented and transparent.

The following are the key benefits of using an open cloud solution:

- Thousands of community developers

- No vendor lock-in

- API compatibility

- Flexibility

- Rapid development, fixes, and innovation

RPC leverages Ansible, Linux Containers (LXC), and other open source
technologies to deploy a fully featured OpenStack Juno installation with
the following supported services:

.. image:: figures/rpc-v10-supported-services.png
   :alt: RPC v10 supported services

RPC provides the following services to support OpenStack:

- Galera with MariaDB

- RabbitMQ™

- Memcached

- Rsyslog

- Logstash

- Elasticsearch with Kibana

The following are some of the improvements in OpenStack Juno that are
included in RPC version 10:

- Support for Apache Hadoop 2.4.1 with Apache Spark for managing big data
  at high speed.

- Network Functional Virtualization (NFV) allows you to essentially
  replace some hardware network appliances with high performance software.

- Storage policy updates to the swift service enable more granular control
  of storage cost and performance.

- New nova service features allow easier image rescue and admin image control

- Database service updates with trove allow you to select several
  different data stores (MySQL, Redis, MongoDB) when creating database
  instances.

- Across OpenStack, the Juno release simplifies the build, operate, scale,
  and upgrade steps.

Rackspace Private Cloud provides the agility and efficiency of a public
cloud combined with the performance, security and control of a dedicated
environment. RPC is a complete managed private cloud solution that is
designed to support enterprise production workloads. It gives you all
the power of the cloud without the pain of running it, so you can focus
on your core business. For more information about how Rackspace can help
manage and support your private cloud, please visit
http://www.rackspace.com/cloud/private/openstack.
